In this video we're going to look at the Cisco layaways software.
It doesn't help to just talk about the Cisco IOS you need to know how you connect to a Cisco router.
So how do you physically cable your connection to the Cisco router.
Boot the router up and then look at various options.
The Cisco Iowas software is the operating system that you'll find on a lot of Cisco routers and switches.
Cisco does have other operating systems such as the nexus operating system.
You'll learn about Nexus and other operating systems used on Cisco firewalls in other courses.
The CCMA rotting and switching course focuses on the Cisco IOS which is a feature rich network operating
system just like a PC.
Cisco switches on rodders required operating systems and the Cisco Iowas software provides the network
intelligence to meet two days demanding network requirements.
So we'll talk about the Cisco Aiwass in this set of videos and we'll look at some of the basic Ioway
command line interface functions and operations all Seelye functions and operations.
We'll also look at how to navigate to the Cisco Iowas CLIA configuration modes such as user mode privilege
mode global configuration mode interface mode and others.
It is a fundamental skill of a Siska network engineer to know the modes because only certain commands
are excepted and valid in specific Iowa modes as an example.
You can only use the host name command in global configuration mode and not in user mode.
One of the stumbling blocks for new network engineers is that they type a valid command but they type
it in the wrong mode and hence the Cisco Rato switch rejects the command which causes confusion.
Make sure you're configuring a valid command in the correct mode.
We'll look at how to use the embedded help options as a type.
Question mark is your friend.
When in doubt use.
Question mark.
The Cisco IOS also supports command completion.
So use tab to complete commands when necessary to save you making typing mistakes and to check that
your commands are valid.
We'll also look at how to manage configurations and how to use additional Iowas features that will help
improve the user experience in the Seelye as an example.
Logging synchronous is a good command to enable on your Cisco devices.
It can save you a lot of frustration the Cisco Aiwa software is the most common metric operating system
in the real world.
Cisco are the market leaders in networking and this Cisco Ioway is the software that powers most Cisco
Raud isn't switches that you'll find in the field today.
So like a computer a switch or router cannot function without some type of operating system.
As mentioned Cisco have multiple operating systems such as the nexus OS and others but the one that
we are going to concentrate on in this course is the Cisco IOS.
Without an operating system a router or switch cannot function when the rot or switch boots up it needs
to boot up the operating system and I'll demonstrate a router booting up and loading the Cisco operating
system in a moment.
So the Cisco Iowas software is the system operating system that you'll find in a lot of routers and
switches and it's the most common type that you probably going to find in most environments.
It's important to realize that it powers both small and large devices as well as switches and routers.
So in other words if you know the Cisco Aiwass and all you've configured is a small router.
It's not that difficult to move to larger devices or larger rods or different types of devices like
large switches.
The Cisco Iowa software exists across multiple products of varying sizes in the really old days.
Some Cisco switches support a catus or catalyst operating system and that was confusing because you
had to know both the Cisco IOS and the catalyst operating system.
That's fortunately not true today today you would need to learn the Cisco Ioway.
And you may encounter a different operating system such as the nexus OS or operating system running
on firewalls.
But the principles are the same.
It's not that difficult to move from one Cisco device to another because the interfaces will be familiar
to you.
Once you learn the Cisco IOS before it's worth your time and effort to learn how the Cisco Iowas works.
Other vendors like HP have similar command line interfaces to the Cisco IOS.
So learning the Cisco IOS may even be beneficial if you come across devices from other vendors.
So the Cisco IOS is used for routers.
It's used for local area network switches.
It's even used on wireless access points and very large routers and switches so you'll find it on many
devices.
Now obviously they're going to be differences between interfaces on a router versus interfaces on a
switch.
A router may have a serial interface and a switch may not.
But the general principles of the same cross of different device families and different product lines
you configure services such as writing and switching using the C ally or command line interface.
Typically you connect to a device using a console connection when you initially configure the device
or you may configure it remotely using telnet or S-sh.
It doesn't matter how you connect to the device when you access the Cisco Iowas see a lie.
It's generally referred to as an exec session.
And the good thing is the look and feel of the command line interface is similar across various device
types although features may be different.
So on a switch you may not be able to configure BGP but you may be able to configure it on a router
but the moral of the story is it's worth your time learning the CLIA because you'll encounter it very
often in your networking career.